<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en"
	xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<meta charset="utf-8"></meta>
		<title>Seasons</title>
		<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/theme-epub.css"/> 	
	</head>

<body>

	<div id="wrapper">
		<header id="intro-heading" class="group">
			
			<hgroup>
				<h1>Seasons</h1>
				<h2>Seasons and weather occur because of the changing position of the earth in relation to the sun.</h2>
			</hgroup>
			
			<div id="credits" class="group">
				<dl id="roles">
					
				</dl>
			</div>
		</header>
	
		<article id="article-body" epub:type="chapter">
		
			<section class="content-block">
				<h2>Seasons</h2>
<p>Hurricanes occur frequently in the southern and eastern United States during summer and fall. During these seasons, storm systems with strong winds form over warm ocean water.</p>
<h3>Earth's Tilt</h3>
<p>Seasons have an enormous impact on us, affecting the conditions in the atmosphere and on the earth that create our weather. As the earth revolves around the sun, it is tilted at a 23.5° angle in relation to the sun.</p>
<p>Because of the earth’s revolution and its tilt, different parts of the earth receive the direct rays of the sun for more hours of the day at certain times in the year. This causes the changing seasons on the earth. Notice in the diagram titled Seasons: Northern Hemisphere that the northern half of the earth tilts toward the sun in summer and away from the sun in winter.</p>
<p>Two lines of latitude—the tropic of Cancer and the tropic of Capricorn—mark the points farthest north and south that the sun’s rays shine directly overhead at noon. The day on which this occurs is called a <b class="tooltip" title="n. either of two times of year when the sun’s rays shine directly overhead at noon at the furthest points north or south, and that mark the beginning of summer and winter; in the Northern Hemisphere, the summer solstice is the longest day and the winter solstice the shortest.">solstice</b>. In the Northern Hemisphere, the summer solstice, or the beginning of summer, is the longest day of the year. Winter solstice, the beginning of winter, is the shortest.</p>
<p>Another signal of seasonal change are the equinoxes. Twice a year on the <b class="tooltip" title="n. each of the two days in a year on which day and night are equal in length; marks the beginning of spring and autumn.">equinox</b>, the days and nights all over the world are equal in length. The equinoxes mark the beginning of spring and autumn.</p>

				
			</section>
			
		</article>

	</div>
</body>
</html>